- [Instructor] Maps are the last group
of collection interfaces and implementations
that we'll explore.
Early in the course,
we learned that a map works by using keys and values.
A map is sort of like a dictionary.
The word represents the key,
and the definition is the value.
If we want to find the definition of a word in a dictionary,
we start our search by looking for the word,
because that's the part we know.
We use the word to find the part that we need to know,
which is the definition.
It's a similar concept in Java.
A map stores entries with an association
between a key and a value.
Just like a dictionary doesn't contain duplicate words,
the same is true for a map, and its keys are unique.
These characteristics of a map make it fast and efficient
at finding values using the key.
In the framework, the map interface is unique
because it does not extend the collection interface.
So we won't find some of the methods that we learned
earlier in the course on the map interface.
If we inspect the interface,
we'll see it contains two generic type parameters,
represented as K and V.
The first is the type of the key,
which can be any type of object.
The key is used when looking up and storing values
in the map.
For the map to work correctly,
the key's type must implement
the hash code and equals methods.
These methods are used by the map to distinguish
one key from the other.
The second generic type parameter denotes the type of the
value stored within the map that is associated with the key.
When working with a map,
there are three core methods that are essential to know.
The first is the put method.
It's used to create or update an entry in the map.
It accepts a key and a value as its arguments.
If the map does not have an entry for the provided key,
the put method will create it,
and then null will be returned from the method.
But what happens if the key
is already associated with a value?
In that case, the put method overwrites
the pre-existing value with the value provided
as an argument to the method.
Then the previous value associated with the key
is returned by the method.
Once you have entries stored in the map,
they can be retrieved using the get method.
This method accepts a key as an argument,
which is used to search the map.
If it finds an entry associated with the key,
it returns the entry's value.
If an entry is not found, the method returns null.
To remove an entry, you can call the remove method
and pass it a key of the entry you'd like to remove.
If an associated entry is found in the map,
it will be removed and then returned by the method.
So those are some of the key operations
you'll need to know on the maps interface.
Now let's move on to our next lesson
to see another way of working with the map.